.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Snax <snax@shmoo.com>
.\"
.\" $Id: gencases.1,v 1.1 2002/08/21 04:36:12 snaks Exp $
.\"
.Dd August 18, 2002
.Dt GENCASES 1
.Os Linux
.Sh NAME
.Nm gencases
.Nd 802.11b weak IV generation tool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm gencases Li (-s Ar pw | Li -h Ar key ) Li -f Ar file Op -n Ar num 
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm gencases
is used to generate test 802.11b packets that are encrypted with weak 
initialization vectors as described by Fluhrer, Mantin, and Shamir (FMS). The 
packets are saved to a user specified file in libpcap compatible format for
later use with the 
.Xr airsnort 1
program. The intent is to provide airsnort with the packets required
to demonstrate the FMS attack.

Arguments to gencases allow the user to specify the WEP key that will be used
to encrypt the packets as well as the number of packets to be generated for each
byte of the wep key.  The generated packets represent UDP echo requests from host
192.168.0.2 (on a wired net) to host 192.168.0.10 (on a wireless net) and the 
corresponding replies. The wireless client has MAC 00:02:2d:01:23:45, the wired
host has MAC 00:04:5A:AB:CD:EF, and the access point has BSSID 00:02:2D:98:76:54.

The generated packet file can be examined with standard packet analysis tools such
as tcpdump or ethereal.  It can also be loaded into 
.Xr airsnort 1
which, given that a sufficient number of cases were generated for each key byte, 
will produce a cracked WEP key. Running the generated file through the
.Xr decrypt 1
utility will produce the decrypted versions of the packets which should reflect
the echo request/reply traffic described above, and which can be verified using
tcpdump or ethereal.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag 
.It -s Ar pw
Password as an ASCII string. 5 or 13 characters for 40 and 128 bit WEP cases
respectively.
.It -h Ar key 
Password as a colon separated list of 2 digit hex values. 5 or 13 hex values
for 40 and 128 bit WEP cases respectively.
.It -f Ar file 
Output file for generated cases.
.It -n Ar num
Number of sample cases to generate for each key byte (1-256). Default is 100.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Generate 100 cases per key byte with the ASCII password "hello" to file "test"
.Bd -literal -offset indent
gencases -s hello -f test
.Ed
.Pp
Generate 200 cases per key byte with the hex key "23:56:89:ab:de" to file "test"
.Bd -literal -offset indent
gencases -h 23:56:89:ab:de -f test -n 200 
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr airsnort 1
.Xr decrypt 1
.Sh AUTHORS
.Bd 
.An Jeremy Bruestle  <melvin@melvin.net>
.An Blake Hegerle    <blake@melvin.net>
.An Snax             <snax@shmoo.com>
.Ed