---
date: 2010-06-26 15:30:52+00:00
excerpt: None
slug: dbushell-v4
template: single.html
title: dbushell.com v4
---

Eagle-eyed viewers may notice that dbushell.com is looking a bit different!

I haven't gone for a full overhaul just a little realigning, better typography and a new logo-thingy. My old design has served me very well over the last year - it was featured on quite a few design blogs. But it was looking a bit dated.


### Habari to WordPress


When I designed my website last year I rebuilt it entirely on the [Habari](http://habariproject.org/en/) blogging platform. Habari destroys WordPress in many areas (probably most) but the lack of documentation makes it very inaccessible for non-programmers. So after a heated debate with myself I reluctantly installed WordPress 3. I suppose it really isn't that bad. The minimalist inside me cries at the amount of unnecessary HTML and CSS that WordPress loves to chug out by default. Sure I can go in and change that stuff, but trying to do anything the _non-wordpress-way_ is an exercise more annoying than vuvuzela band practice.

I had immense fun trying to keep all my old URLs the same. Hope Google likes it. I may return to Habari one day, but for now I'm back with the crowd.


### Web Standards


The new design takes full advantage of CSS3, especially @font-face embedding. Say hello to [Droid Serif](http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/Droid-Serif/) (now one of my top five typefaces), and [League Gothic](http://www.theleagueofmoveabletype.com/fonts/7-league-gothic) (because who doesn't like it?). There's some fancy stuff going on in the forms too - I've yet to test this in IE though! I'm just glad I've got rid of Cufon.


### Logo thingy


I'm calling it a logo thingy because it isn't quite a logo. I don't need a logo. I haven't had one during the last 4 years my site has been live. Anyway it's full of modern cliches so I'm sure it'll change at some point down the line.  It did get a fairly positive reception on twitter and [Dribbble](http://dribbble.com/players/dbushell) so for now it can sit up there.


### Design and Layout


A big reason for the redesign was getting my blog and portfolio pages more unified. I've reduced the clutter and kept it simple. A good tip for any designer is don't be too ambitious! Less is more (as they say), but more importantly - less means less to maintain. I'll probably be adding to my portfolio soon (I have actually been working for the last two years you know). Any maybe a bit more CSS flare to come.

So what do you think? Leave a comment below if you like the changes, or if you dont!
