---
date: 2010-12-14 22:26:38+00:00
excerpt: None
slug: 2010-in-design
template: single.html
title: 2010 in Design
---

Funny how things never turn out how you expect them to.

_Rewind_ a year and I find myself planning a big twenty-ten. After completing a very solid year in my pro web design career, 2010 was suppose to be all about exploring past passions in art and crafts. Replacing the mouse with a paint brush and all that nonsense.

I was stoked, so naturally January & Feb turned into the worst months of my otherwise healthy life. Not to delve into personal details but it was a very demoralising time.

**But I recovered! **<sup>yey!</sup>

I was back in the game, and it was now about **web design and development**. Screw the paintbrush it doesn't support JavaScript half as well as Chrome.

A refreshing **April** appears on the horizon and I build my first **HTML5** website with a re-design of [Design Heroes](http://designheroes.co.uk). Give me a few months and I'll be crushing the next-gen web standards like a pro, but for now I'm eyes deep in W3 specifications.

**June** sees the return of an old nemesis: WordPress. My desire to blog more requires it be as easy as possible, a [re-design of dbushell.com](/2010/06/26/dbushell-v4/) on WordPress leaves no excuse. The new design has been very well received, and I'm honoured by the hundreds of design blogs that have featured me to date.

**Summer** goes by fast and my design blogging goes up a notch. I should mention I've been working at [Base Creative](http://www.basecreative.eu) all year if you were wondering what's happened in between!

Around** August** I start thinking there should be some kind of "coffee break" website for designers to chill out between client work. That little idea evolved into my most successful project yet. [LoveDsgn](http://lovedsgn.com) is a bit of a runaway train, but it's also amazing to work on, and the community has been passionate and inspiring.

Right now I'm focused on a very exciting project at Base Creative. Can't say more, but I can _not_ wait to see it live early next year!

A lot of my side projects have fallen by the wayside throughout the year. Not by choice but by demands elsewhere. I think my tweet yesterday sums it up - _"The day I go to bed feeling there's nothing more to be done is the day I give up."_

__I don't know which projects will resurface, but since I've already acquired domain names for a few, I suspect it will be those :-) Am I going to make predictions for 2011?

No!

But I am excited for what is in store. Enough about me, how has your year been?
