TCP/IP Bootloader for the EZFlash IV
------------------------------------

Micah Dowty <micah@navi.cx>

This is a simple Wifi bootloader, which works with the EZFlash IV GBA
flash cartridges. It may also work with the M3/SC-style flash
cartridges, but it has not been tested on these yet and it may require
small modifications.

Compiling
---------

This package requires the DevkitPro toolchain: it needs DevkitARM,
libnds, and dswifi. If your environment is properly set up, typing
"make" should generate a .ds.gba and .nds file.

Usage
-----

Copy wifi-ez4-loader.ds.gba to your EZFlash IV card, and select it
from the card's menu. It should connect to a Wifi access point using
your Nintendo WFC settings. Once connected, it will display the IP
address and port it is listening on. By default, it listens on port
6502.

The bootloader is expecting a TCP stream with a bare .ds.gba file. It
will accept exactly one connection, dump all data it finds to the
EZ4's GBA SRAM (At address 0x08000000). Once the TCP connection
closes, it will wait for you to press any button before bootstrapping
the ROM image.

On UNIX-like platforms, the easiest way to send a ROM image is with
the 'netcat' or 'socat' commands. It is preferable to use socat,
because it will automatically close the connection after the entire
file has been transferred. For example, if your DS was listening on
192.168.1.10:6502 you would use one of:

   nc 192.168.1.10 6502 < my-rom-image.ds.gba

   socat gopen:my-rom-image.ds.gba tcp4:192.168.1.10:6502

Troubleshooting
---------------

Before trying to send a ROM image, try to ping the DS's IP address. If
your pings intermittently stop responding, if it takes a while before
the DS responds to the very first ping, or if the ROM image transfers
in bursts with long pauses in between, you may need to reconfigure
your wireless base station.

I have found that the following "Advanced Wireless Settings" on my
Linksys WRT54G help the DS's performance greatly:

  Basic Rate:          1-2 Mbps
  Transmission Rate:   Auto
  Beacon Interval:     1000 ms

Also, it should help to make sure you choose a channel which isn't
already flooded with other access points.

--
